Now let's take a look at specific examples of
resilient multi-platform architectures.
We'll start by looking at an example from Auth0,
in which they use multiple infrastructure providers to maintain
high availability services for their products.
Then we'll look at how we can use AWS availability zones and
regions to gain some redundancy just within AWS.
And finally,
we'll look more in depth about how you can use DNS failover to
instrument resilient and fault tolerant services.
In a talk at ScaleConf,
the Auth0 Director of Engineering said that to
improve redundancy and availability, we run Amazon on the West coast,
we run Azure on the East coast, and if one fails,
we just move over to the other one.
We have Amazon as our primary.
In practice,
this means that Auth0 creates a fully redundant
application in both AWS and Azure.
They also mentioned that they keep a redundant data
store within the Google Cloud Platform.
They also keep DNS setup that points to the primary in most times,
but in the cases of failures, they keep a very low time to live on this DNS,
so that services don't continue to reference a failed service,
and it fails over to the other provider in case of issues.
This allows them to consistently deliver their services across the globe,
even in the face of issues with infrastructure providers.
But what if our organization is glued to AWS and doesn't want to move at all?
Well, there are still some things we can do to prepare for the worst.
AWS has the concept of regions.
In each of these regions are several availability zones.
An example region is us-east-1, which contains several availability zones,
including us-east-1a, b, and c.
Regions are geographically separated areas that are usually chosen by
developers for proximity to clients that you're serving.
A us-east-1 region would be faster for users in Philadelphia,
than, say, folks in central Europe.
These regions span the globe, and can be found in places like the United States,
Ireland, and Tokyo.
Within each of these regions, you'll also find availability zones, or AZs.
These AZs are geographically separated within a region in
order to attempt to avoid issues like floods,
fires, or other natural disasters.
There's a few key ways we can take advantage of this in our applications.
The first is multi availability zone redundancy.
An example of this would be if we were using AWS Elastic Compute Cloud,
and spun up one EC2 instance explicitly within availability zone A
and another instance in availability zone B.
Fortunately for us, there are also some services like AWS S3,
which are automatically redundant in these availability zones by default.
There's also the option to replicate our
applications or across regions entirely.
Now this is not done automatically by AWS,
and we would need to explicitly replicate all our data,
files, and services between these regions.
Having this sort of redundancy would actually have made an application
withstand the earlier mentioned issue on AWS S3,
as that was specific to the us-east-1 region.
And finally,
you could take both of these approaches and be redundant
both within availability zones and regions.
So now let's change gears here and see how we can use DNS
failovers to improve our applications.
Let's imagine we have a user making a connection into an application.
That connection uses domain name servers,
or DNS, to send the traffic where it needs to go.
Let's imagine that in the first case the traffic is reviewed and routed
and eventually sent over to a service running on Azure.
Let's also pretend that there's a service configuration
error on the application deployed to Azure,
and it starts sending back server errors or isn't even connecting at all.
Now every time we make a request of the service,
our HTTP client will look to see if the time to live
value DNS has been given has expired.
This TTL, or time to live,
is the amount of time which we wait before asking DNS again to
show us where to go in case it has changed.
In these cases,
the TTL must be very low to make sure that users don't keep getting
the same address for a service that isn't working.
In the case where the service is failing,
we can monitor the health metrics like 500 errors and automatically
change the DNS setting to start sending traffic a different direction
if we see too many errors on the provider.
After these changes are made, we might have a second connection attempt,
which again goes to DNS, and then reviews the new settings for routing,
and is directed to a duplicate of the initial service on AWS.
In this way,
we're keeping a redundant service around for emergencies that can be
swapped to automatically in the case of failures.
Now it's impossible to reliably give you all the specific best practices for
your current organization and infrastructure provider,
so I'll leave you with a few practices to keep in mind
when making decisions going forward.
First, assess your risks.
Determine what needs your organization has.
Maybe you don't actually need to plan for the edge
cases for when providers fail.
Alternatively,
maybe you work in an incredibly sensitive industry or organization,
and you need to be aware of everything and take
precautions for cases exactly like this.
Next, make some backups.
While it's fair to say assess your risks and only
focus on the things that matter, modern cloud storage is incredibly cheap,
and it's likely that there's something you should
really be backing up somewhere.
Importantly, you want to make and test your backups to make sure they work.
And finally,
after doing a review and determining what reasonable
risks you can take given the situation,
make sure to put in appropriate failsafes.
Plan some time with your organization to make and test those changes
and be sure that they address what you want them to,
or else they're not worth putting in place at all.
Congratulations!
You've done so much in this course.
In this module alone you've learned new serverless concepts
related to multi-platform architectures.
You've also reviewed some of the examples of other resilient architectures,
and learned some best practices,
so that you can implement within your future applications.
So what next?
Well, you're ready to make your own applications with the serverless framework.
You'd also start to experiment with the other ways of
building serverless applications.
To learn more about lambda,
you could check out my Introduction to AWS Lambda course here on Pluralsight,
or you could start playing around with the serverless framework in other
programming languages or with different providers.
There's a lot of possibilities here, and I hope you're excited for them.
I hope you enjoyed this course on the serverless framework.
Please feel free to reach out to me on Twitter,
or to ask any questions you might have about the course. Thanks again for watching, and I hope to see you in another course soon.